In this course students will learn the procedures, protocols and best practices that a DevOps engineer
brings to a workplace environment to increase productivity. Analyze and evaluate various developer
operation implementations available and implement hands-on work using industry standard toolkit.
Create solution to complex business problem by adhering to the core responsibilities of DevOps
Students will learn about data formats and types, including Extensible Markup Language (XML),
JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), Yaml Ain't Markup Language (YAML), and Yet Another Next
Generation (YANG), and their value in network automation, along with DevOps tools such as Ansible
and Git.

#Course Outcomes
At the end of this course, the student will reliably demonstrate the ability to:
1. Effectively carry out the roles of a System or Network engineer with DevOps processes by
utilizing the industry-standard tools and techniques and strategies such as CI/CD, as well as
software development lifecycle and containerization for deployment.
2. Demonstrate the strategies and skills of using suitable DevOps tools, Cloud database
technologies and techniques for software/network applications
3. Enhance the software development life cycle cycle through cross collaboration among the IT
staff by understanding and effectively automating the application configurations and operations.
4. Utilize Version Control System workflows to develop optimized, low-risk software releases and
continuous code integration.
5. Make a well-informed analysis and architectural decisions between monolithic or microservice
architecture for software products.
6. Monitor code quality and CI/CD pipelines to improve and optimize the DevOps processes
continuously
7. Create effective strategies and utilize service platforms such as Infrastructure as Code and the
benefits of cloud computing to deploy a software product.
8. Identify the market and opportunities for a DevOps Engineer to Effectively develop & integrate
security practices into the software development cycle and CI/CD pipelines.

Recommended Resources
 DevOps: A Software Architect’s Perspective (Bass, Len Weber, Ingo Zhu, Liming [Bass etc.)
Docker Up Running Shipping Reliable Containers in Production (Sean P. Kane Karl Matthias)

#Course Delivery Mode
The course uses various instructional methods, such as lectures, demonstrations, hands-on exercises, and
take-home assignments. The delivery mode depends on whether the course is online or in person. Online
lectures will be the primary mode, but there may be in-person lectures for in-person participants. Labs
will be conducted virtually for the online program, while in-person program students must attend on-
campus labs. For more information about the delivery mode, please refer to D2L. Any updates will be
communicated through D2L in advance.
